New Swift entry on inheritance (#532)
Codecademy/docs: content/swift/concepts/inheritance/inheritance.md

---
Title: 'Inheritance'

> Description: 'Inheritance allows for reusing of code by sharing features between classes.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Inheritance allows code reusability by sharing features between classes.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags:
  - 'Closures'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

> Inheritance allows for the transferring of properties, methods, and other characteristics between classes. This is a feature that differentiates Swift classes from other types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inheritance allows properties, methods, and other characteristics to be transferred between classes. This is a feature that differentiates Swift classes from other types.
```

Did we want to say "transferred" or "shared"?

Maybe we can also link out to Swift data types when we mention "types."

Author: yeah, I was also debating on whether to say 'shared' or 'transferred' and then just ended up saying transferred since the parent class gives to the child but the parent class can't use the child properties and methods.

Author: I'll add the link

> The class that inherits features is known as the child class or subclass. The class that the subclass inherited from is known as the parent class or superclass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A class that inherits features is known as the child class or subclass. The class that the subclass inherited from is known as the parent class or superclass.
```

## Syntax

A class can inherit from another class with the following syntax:

```swift

> class SuperClass{

Reviewer: ```suggestion
class SuperClass {
```

>   //superclass definition goes here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Superclass definition goes here
```

}

class SubClass: SuperClass {

>   //subclass definition goes here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Subclass definition goes here
```

}
```

The subclass will inherit all the properties and methods from the superclass and can also have its own defined ones.

## Example

> The following is a class named `Car` with one variable,`topSpeed`, which is equal to 200 and a function named `drive()`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following  example is a class named `Car` with one variable, `topSpeed` that is equal to 200, and a function named `drive()` that prints a string:
```

```swift
class Car {
  var topSpeed = 200
  func drive() {
    print("Driving")
  }
}
```

A second class can inherit from the `Car` class as shown below:

```swift
class Jeep: Car {

>   //creating new property

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Creating new property
```

  var currentNumberOfMiles = 0
}
```

An instance of `Jeep` can be created like this:

```swift
let wrangler = Jeep()
```

Properties can be accessed or changed like this:

```swift
wrangler.topSpeed = 100
print(wrangler.topSpeed)

> //prints 100

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Output: 100
```

wrangler.currentNumberOfMiles = 300
print(wrangler.currentNumberOfMiles)

> //prints 300

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Output: 300
```

```

## Override

> A method of a superclass can be overrided within the subclass by using the `override` keyword. The following example creates a new subclass of `Car` called `Tesla` and uses the override keyword on the `drive()` function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A method of a superclass can be overridden within the subclass by using the `override` keyword. The following example creates a new subclass of `Car` called `Tesla` and uses the `override` keyword on the `drive()` function:
```

```swift
class Tesla: Car {
  override func drive() {
    print("Driving very quietly")
  }
}
```

When an instance of `Tesla` is created and the `func` method is called on it, the new implementation of `drive()` will print:

```swift
let modelY = Tesla()
modelY.drive()

> // prints "Driving very quietly"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Output: Driving very quietly
```

```

### Accessing Superclass Method After Override

If the superclass version of the method needs to be accessed in the overidden version, the `super` keyword can be used:

```swift
class Tesla: Car {
  override func drive() {
    super.drive()
    print("Driving very quietly")
  }
}
```

When `.drive()` is called on an instance of the class, both the superclass and overriden versions of the method will be called:

```swift
modelY.drive()

> // "Driving"
> // "Driving very quietly"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This will output:

```

Maybe we can do a multi-line output block

```shell
Driving
Driving very quietly
```

### Prevent Overriding

Overriding can be prevented by using the `final` keyword when declaring the method in the superclass. An example of this is shown below using the previous example:

```swift
class Car {
  var topSpeed = 200

>     final func drive() { //declaring drive() final

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    final func drive() { // Declaring final for drive()
```

      print("Driving")
    }
}

class Tesla: Car {

>   override func drive() { //ERROR: Instance method overrides a 'final' instance method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  override func drive() { // ERROR: Instance method overrides a 'final' instance method
```

    super.drive()
    print("Driving very quietly")
  }
}
```

> When the method is declared `final`, it can no longer be overriden. Any attempt to ovveride a method declared `final` will result in an error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the method is declared `final`, any attempt to override a method declared `final` will result in an error.
```

```swift
wrangler.topSpeed = 100
print(wrangler.topSpeed)
// Output: 100

wrangler.currentNumberOfMiles = 300
print(wrangler.currentNumberOfMiles)
// Output: 300
```

## Override

A method of a superclass can be overridden within the subclass by using the `override` keyword. The following example creates a new subclass of `Car` called `Tesla` and uses the `override` keyword on the `drive()` function:

```swift
class Tesla: Car {
  override func drive() {
    print("Driving very quietly")
  }
}
```

When an instance of `Tesla` is created and the `func` method is called on it, the new implementation of `drive()` will print:

```swift
let modelY = Tesla()
modelY.drive()
// Output: Driving very quietly
```

### Accessing Superclass Method After Override

If the superclass version of the method needs to be accessed in the overidden version, the `super` keyword can be used:

```swift
class Tesla: Car {
  override func drive() {
    super.drive()
    print("Driving very quietly")
  }
}
```

When `.drive()` is called on an instance of the class, both the superclass and overriden versions of the method will be called:

```swift
modelY.drive()
```

This will output:

> ```swift

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```

---
Title: 'Inheritance'
Description: 'Inheritance allows code reusability by sharing features between classes.'
Subjects:
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags:
  - 'Inheritance'
  - 'Classes'
  - 'Objects'
  - 'OOP'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

> Inheritance allows properties, methods, and other characteristics to be transferred between classes. This is a feature that differentiates classes from other [data types](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swift/data-types).

Reviewer 2: Should we also link "classes" to the Docs Swift entry about classes?

```suggestion
Inheritance allows properties, methods, and other characteristics to be transferred between classes. This is a feature that differentiates [classes](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swift/classes) from other [data types](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swift/data-types).
```
